---
layout: post
title:  "Book History and Digital Humanities in the Long Eighteenth Century"
date:   "2022-12-10"
categories: jekyll update
---
# Book History and Digital Humanities in the Long Eighteenth Century

In the John Hopkins article Book History and Digital Humanities in the Long Eighteenth Century, they discuss the relationship between book history and the digital humanities—including their similarities, differences, how are they linked, and where they overlap. A specific overlap that the authors mention that I found particularly interesting is the study of texts that were first published digitally. As technology has improved, book historians are more often using digital methods, traditionally associated with digital humanities to study these texts—how they were produced and received by the public to understand how they fit in with the publication word. Digital humanists are using these digital first texts to analyze and understand the effects of shifting print from physical to digital. The authors also mention that another overlap in fields is the study of digital humanities themselves. Book historians study the impact of digital humanities on the production and reception of books. Digital humanities have changed the way we can analyze texts and it can therefore change how we think about them and their place in society. It’s easy to see that the line between the two studies, book history and digital humanities, is getting blurred. However, I believe, and it seems the authors agree, that this is only a good thing that is promoting further research. General discourse seems to think that the choice is only print or digital, but there’s no reason readers shouldn’t reap the benefits of both. With technology advancing so quickly I’m excited to see how these field advance further and likely overlap even more. I wonder if, in say twenty-five years, there will even be a distinction between the two subjects. 

I’m very curious about how the transition from paper to digital reading effects children’s reading habits and learning efficiency. This question, while ambitious to answer given the recency of technology, falls under both book history and digital humanities. 