---
layout: post
title:  "The Humanities"
date:   "2022-12-07"
categories: jekyll update
---
# Sacred reading: from Augustine to the Digital Humanists

This article addresses the concern that some academics are worried that digital humanities is making literary criticism less human and worse overall as a result. Critics argue that the distant reading approach is too reductive and takes away from all the unique qualities of individual works. However, the author says that the traditional way of reading by focusing on analyzing a single text at a time in detail can also have its limitations. Other than the obvious that you can only read one text at a time, the author says that it can lead to an over-emphasis on individual interpretation. The article also discusses the history of close reading and its ties to the rise of the modern university. It concludes by saying that we should embrace digital methodologies to improve and expand our understanding of literature rather than seeing digital humanities as a threat to literary criticism. I agree with the author but understand where the critics are coming from. Digital humanities has allowed for many new ways to study texts that wouldn’t have been possible before. However, it’s important to understand its limitations. As long as academics know this and supplement with traditional analysis, the digital humanities is only an asset to academia that will continue to improve and help our understanding of the humanities. Technology has done so much for many different fields and it’s exciting to see how it can even affect a discipline as established as the humanities. I wouldn’t be surprised to see the elementary/high school system adopt digital humanities and beginning introducing it to children starting at a young age. My only fear is that as technology becomes so good, can and will the digital humanities put an end to the traditional. I sure hope not. As a supplement, digital humanities is a huge benefit, as a replacement, it would be destructive. 